# Repository Technical Specs

These specifications describe technical aspects about this app. In particular, they discuss how the repository is organized, technical standards, etc.

## Technical overview

This app is built using a MERN stack: [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org), [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) (via [Mongoose](http://mongoosejs.com/)), and [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/).

We are running our apps on Google Cloud Platform, using Google App Engine. Builds and pull requests are tested and deployed via Travis.

## Some technical comments

+ This project is open to people from a variety of technical levels! So don't be afraid to try to contribute and, if you have questions, ask for help. (Also, React is not as complicated as it might seem at first!)

### Notes for non-experts

+ .jsx are just javascript files which also allow React components (things that look like -- but are not quite -- standard html). If you know javascript, you should be able to understand them!

+ Javascript is fairly straightforward syntactically. However, one of the trickiest parts is that it is run typically asynchronously, which can be confusing. Understanding that makes a big difference in being able to read and write javascript effectively.

+ To learn React, if you know javascript, I suggest you go to the Facebook documents. Start with (the tutorial)[https://facebook.github.io/react/tutorial/tutorial.html] and then do (the Quickstart)[https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/installation.html]. These give a good overview of the framework.

## Repository organization

### Sources

The repository organization is as follows:

```
├──server/                      the Express backend for serving static 
│  │                            files andservicing the API
│  ├──routes/                   API routes
│  │  ├── index.js              main routes
│  │  ├── ...
│  ├──models/                   data models for API
│  │  ├── db.js                 connect to the mongo DB
│  │  ├── ...
│  ├──controllers/              backend API 
│  │  ├── ...
│  ├──_common/                  support files used in multiple sections
│  │  ├── ...
│  ├──server.js                 starting point for backend
│  ├──config-server.json        server config file; see below
├──src/                         client files for React
│  ├──App.jsx                   client starting point
│  ├──credentials-client.jsx    hold client credentials
│  ├── ...
├──static/                      static files
│  ├──index.html                shell for the client for React
│  ├── ...
├──scripts/                     scripts run separately from server process
│  ├── ...
```

### Production server

On the production server (or if `npm run compile`, `npm run compile-server` are run), the following additional files are generated by compiling the source:
```
├── dist/                 transpiled version of server/ from running babel
│   ├── ...
├── static/
│   ├── app.bundle.js     compiled client code from src
│   ├── vendor.bundle.js  compiled client code from node_modules
```

## Conventions

### REST API structure

+ For rest API endpoints, use spinal case, i.e. "this-style", not "thisStyle" or "this_style".

### Javascript

+ Use ES2015 syntax on both the server and client-side (including modules). Babel will be used to transpile code for wider compatibility with older browsers.

### React

+ React component class should be their own files

### JSON

We will (tentatively) follow the [Google JSON Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsoncstyleguide.xml).

### Linting

The code is linted via ESLint to follow the [Airbnb javascript guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript). For contributors: running eslint (after you have run `npm install` in the main directory to install dependencies) is as easy as running `npm run lint` in the main directory.

## Development

To develop the code base, do the following:

1. [Install mongodb](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/). 
1. Follow [these Github instructions](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) to fork this repo to your account
1. In the repo directory, install the dependencies by running
    $ npm install
1. [Set up configuration variables](#configuration-variables)
1. Copy server/credentials-template.js to server/credentials.js and edit it. For example, try changing `'mongodb://'` to `'mongodb://localhost/atibroadcastapp'`.
1. Start the app via:

    $ npm run dev-all
    
The app should automatically detect changes to your code and recompile. The development server will listen on port 8000.

### Configuration variables

The following configuration variables are recognized:

variable name | (R)equired or default value | description
---- | ---- | ----
port | 8080 | port on which server will be run
fb\_appsecretid | R | Facebook App secret
fb\_broadcastuserid | R | Facebook broadcast user ID
mongo_connectionstring | R | connection string for mongo
cookiesecret | R | salt for cookies (currently unused)

Note that all variables are lowercase.

Because it is easiest to store configuration variables in different places in different environments, configuration variables are checked for in several places in the following order:
1. As argument (e.g. `node dist/server.js --port 40 --fb_appsecretid fjlj34`)
2. As an environmental variable
3. From the file server/credentials-secret.json
4. From Google App Engine project metadata (if being run on Google App Engine)

## Database collections

## Conventions

- State will be given as the 2-letter postal abbreviation

### Admin (settings)

The Admin collection hold settings for the Admin user. Each document must have a `name`, holding the setting's name, and then the other fields differ per setting and indicate the setting's values.

#### accessToken

The Facebook access token for the broadcast user.

field name | type | description
---- | ---- | ---
token | string | The access token
expiryDate | date | the token's expiration date

### Broadcasts

The Broadcasts collection holds the state of broadcasted messages. Each broadcast is one document with the following 

[messageHistoryObjects](#messageHistoryObjects)

field name | type | description
---- | ---- | ---
state | string | state for which the broadcast is made
messageHistory | [ [messageHistoryObject](#messageHistoryObjects) ] | contains all the states the message has been in during its editing history.
groupStatus | {string: integer} | an object where the key is the group id and the value is the messageId for that group's current status
broadcastHistory | *array* | [see below](#broadcastHistory-array)

#### messageHistoryObject's

This array contains all the states the message has been in during its editing history. 

field name | type | description
---- | ---- | ---
messageId | integer | 0-based number indicating which history item is being referred to
message | string | either the message desired or null if deleted

#### broadcastHistory array

This array contains all the activity that the broadcast has undergone in its history. It is intended for debugging.

Each element is an object with the following format
field name | type | description
---- | ---- | ---



### Users

The user collection holds all allowed users.

field name | type | description
---- | ---- | ---
firstName | string | first name
lastName | string | last name
states | [string] | an array of the states the user is allowed access to
loginEmail | string | *[indexed]* google e-mail, for login
contactEmail | string | user e-mail for contacting

## Backend API

(To be replaced by something using [documentation.js](http://documentation.js.org/), [JSDoc](http://usejsdoc.org/), or [ESDoc](https://esdoc.org/)? Or [Swagger](https://swagger.io/)?)

### /admin

#### /admin/update-access-token POST

Update an access token

##### POST body *(JSON)*

field name | type  |  description
--- | --- | ---
userId | string | the facebook user ID of the user
accessToken | string | the access token returned by Facebook FB.login()

##### response, on success *(JSON)*

field name | type  |  description
--- | --- | ---
expiryDate | date | date of token expiration

